What you copy-paste into Replit (inclusive of the tips)

You paste exactly this into Replit as a non-executable foundation document.
Do not treat it as code.

✅ Best places to paste it (pick ONE)

Option A (recommended):
📄 docs/PHASE_2_FOUNDATION.md
→ This is the cleanest and most future-proof place.

Option B:
📄 README_PHASE_2.md
→ If you want it visible at repo root.

Option C:
🧠 Top-of-file comment in your backend service that will own reactions
(e.g. incidentResponses.ts), like this:

/**
 * NABORNET — PHASE 2 FOUNDATION
 *
 * This file implements structured incident reactions.
 * The rules, constraints, and intent are defined below.
 *
 * ⚠️ This comment is intentional and must not be removed.
 */


Then paste the full text below that comment.

🔒 EXACT TEXT TO PASTE (no edits needed)

You can copy this verbatim:

NaborNet — Phase 2: Structured Incident Responses
Baseline, context, and direction

Baseline / Where we are now

Phase 1 is complete and intentionally closed.

Phase 1 outcomes

Incident reporting is location-based, not room/chat-based.

Users see incidents within a radius + time window.

Reporting is structured, not conversational.

Free-form neighbourhood chat was deliberately removed.

Clear UX signalling exists (lock icons + tooltips) to communicate:

This is a structured safety-reporting system, not free chat.

Content is moderated and subject to safety rules.

Category + severity filtering is live and stable.

System is deployed to production and functioning as intended.

Phase 1 established

A clear architectural boundary

A clear legal posture

A clear UX philosophy: safety signals over speculation

This phase is a locked foundation.

What Phase 2 is about

Phase 2 introduces a new interaction layer — not a return to chat.

The shift is:
From reporting incidents → to reacting to incidents

This matters because it affects:

How users feel “heard” without speaking freely

How community consensus is signalled

How legal exposure is controlled

How moderation load is avoided

How trust signals + analytics can be built later

Phase 2 is not discussion.
It is acknowledgement, awareness, and resolution signalling.

Direction / Intent for Phase 2

Allow users to participate using structured, neutral signals such as:

Seen / Aware

Caution

Needs assistance

Resolved

(Optional later) False / Not there (high-risk; avoid early)

Key constraints

No free-text chat

No speculation about people, addresses, or patterns

One response per user per incident (upsert model)

Signals must reduce, not increase, legal exposure

UX should feel lightweight (WhatsApp-adjacent) without becoming chat

Responses must never become “votes on guilt” or “naming/shaming”

The system should

Let users feel involved

Let incidents gain context over time

Avoid turning NaborNet into a rumour/accusation engine

What this conversation is for

This conversation exists to:

Pressure-test the interaction model

Evaluate legal + social implications

Decide what signals are allowed now vs later

Think ahead to extensibility (counts, decay, weighting, trust)

Keep design decisions intentional and documented

Execution can be handled by Replit.
This space is for thinking clearly before scaling behaviour.

Rule of thumb:
If a reaction could be interpreted as an allegation about a person, it doesn’t ship in Phase 2.

Why this belongs in Replit (important)

This text acts as:

🧭 Architectural compass (prevents feature creep)

⚖️ Legal boundary marker (for future contributors)

🧠 AI prompt anchor (when you ask Replit Agent to build features)

🧱 “Do not cross” line when someone suggests chat/comments later

When you say to Replit Agent:

“Implement reactions according to the Phase 2 foundation”

— this document is what it should reference.

Next (when you’re ready)

In the new GPT chat, the correct next steps are:

Define Signal Set v1 (final, shippable)

Lock the database schema

Decide which signals are write-once vs reversible

Decide visibility rules (counts only? icons only? decay?)

Say the word and we do step 1 cleanly and conservatively.