I’m resuming app development and focusing on an issue with incident reporting on mobile and tablet views.

Problem

When a user reports an incident and presses the Submit button:

The app navigates to the map page, but the marker for the reported incident does not immediately appear.

The marker only becomes visible after leaving the map page and returning to it.

Even when the app navigates to the map page after reporting, the zoom level is too wide and does not focus on the reported incident’s location.

Expected Behavior

After submitting an incident report, the app should:

Navigate to the map page.

Immediately display the marker at the reported incident’s exact GPS location.

Maximally zoom in on that location so the incident is clearly visible.

Do you want me to also write a developer-oriented task breakdown (like action items for fixing it in code), or just keep it as a clean problem statement for now?

You said:

Do you want me to also write a **developer-oriented task breakdown** (like action items for fixing it in code), or just keep it as a clean problem statement for now?

yes
NN Builder & Coder said:

Got it ✅ — here’s the developer-oriented task breakdown for fixing the incident reporting/map navigation issue in NN:

Task Breakdown – Incident Reporting Map Flow
1. Incident Submission → Map Navigation

Current behavior:

After submission, the app navigates to the map page, but the new marker does not render immediately.

Fix:

Ensure the reported incident’s data is persisted (e.g., in Zustand/React Query state) before triggering navigation.

Pass the incident ID or GPS coordinates as route state/params when redirecting to the map page.

2. Marker Visibility

Current behavior:

Marker only becomes visible after leaving and re-entering the map page.

Fix:

On map page load, re-fetch or subscribe to incident data if a new report was submitted.

Trigger a map update/render once the marker data is available.

Use a useEffect that listens for “newIncident” in state to place the marker immediately.

3. Auto Zoom & Centering

Current behavior:

Map defaults to a wide zoom, not centered on the reported incident.

Fix:

On navigation with incident coordinates:

Call map.flyTo({ center: [lng, lat], zoom: MAX_ZOOM }).

Ensure this happens after marker placement, so the user sees the incident instantly.

4. Edge Cases to Handle

User reports incident with poor GPS signal → fallback zoom to approximate location.

Multiple incident reports in quick succession → app should still highlight the latest report.

Incident submitted offline → marker should be created once sync completes, then map should auto-zoom.