Task: Keep the Low / Medium / High categorisation and the existing color tints on each card, but switch the layout back to a 4-per-row grid (4 × 3). Keep everything else in the app exactly the same.

Keep exactly the same

Route, header, nav, anonymous toggle, modal/report flow, Firestore writes, toasts.

Card images/icons and labels (use existing assets).

Priority tints already applied: Low (sky), Medium (amber), High (rose).

“Report something else” link and all click handlers.

Layout changes

Use a single grid container with 4 columns per row:

Tailwind example for the grid wrapper:
class="grid gap-4 sm:grid-cols-2 md:grid-cols-4"

Ensure three rows (total 12 items).

Preserve the priority grouping by row (top → bottom):

Row 1 – Low / Community: Lost Pet, Lost & Found, [leave 2 items empty or keep spacing consistent if only 2] → Instead, place both low items first and then repeat them as centered with two empty spacers hidden via responsive utilities OR append two low-priority placeholders that are invisible to users.

Row 2 – Medium / Risk: Accident, Break In, Suspicious Persons, Traffic, Construction (pick 4 for this row, put the 5th first in the next row).

Row 3 – High / Emergency: Alarm, Fire, Help (SOS), Violence, Theft (again, pick 4 for this row, place the 5th in Row 2 overflow or Row 3 as a wrap).

Simpler directive: Order the 12 cards so that the first 4 are Low, next 4 are Medium, last 4 are High—this guarantees a clean 4×3 grid while keeping the priority bands intact.

Exact order to render:

Low: Lost Pet, Lost & Found, (two low placeholders removed) → replace with two additional Low-type shortcuts if available; if not, leave low at 2 then fill with the first two Medium items so the first row still has 4.

Recommended fixed order (clean 4×3):
Row 1 (Low): Lost Pet, Lost & Found, Traffic, Construction
Row 2 (Medium): Accident, Break In, Suspicious Persons, Theft
Row 3 (High): Alarm, Fire, Help (SOS), Violence

Note: Traffic & Construction are low-impact in many communities; Theft is operationally higher, so we place it with Medium to keep four per row. Keep the tints mapped to their true priority, regardless of row.

Section labels (optional but preferred): add small headers before each 4-card block:

“Community (low)”, “Risk (medium)”, “Emergency (high)”

Style: text-xs font-semibold text-slate-600 uppercase tracking-wide mb-2

Classes for priority tints (unchanged)

Low: bg-sky-50 border border-sky-200 hover:bg-sky-100 focus:ring-sky-300

Medium: bg-amber-50 border border-amber-200 hover:bg-amber-100 focus:ring-amber-300

High: bg-rose-50 border border-rose-200 hover:bg-rose-100 focus:ring-rose-300

Accessibility

Keep aria-label including priority (e.g., "Alarm, Emergency (High)").

Maintain keyboard focus styles (focus:ring-* by priority).

Acceptance criteria

The Quick Report section renders as a 4×3 grid across desktop (2×n on small screens).

Low, Medium, High items remain visibly tinted as before.

Icons/images and labels are unchanged; reporting behavior is unchanged.

Optional section headers appear above each 4-card block (if implemented).

Submitting still posts to Feed and Map without any regressions.