Please review and analyse the following tasks.
The sequence and  dependencies are a suggestion - replit can cange this if needed 
I want Replit to arrange these tasks into a sequence that is best for software development , hence in  a sequence that makes sense for programming and architectural changes .
NN Dev To-Do List (with Tags + Dependencies)
Fix commenting issue on incident cards (Frontend + Backend)


Enable commenting on incident cards in desktop and mobile views.


Independent task
Currently, comments do not want to post when I am testing the app in mobile view & desktop view.
Commenting only works in the Replit preview console 


Redesign incident colour scheme and spectrum (UI/UX + Frontend)


Create a new, consistent colour system for incidents.


Depends on #6 (colour coding unification)
In this task, I want to re. re-evaluate the whole incident list along with a new severity colour coding palette 


Add “Go To” button on incident cards (Frontend + Backend)


Clicking navigates user to the corresponding map marker on the map page at maximum zoom.


Independent task
With this task, I want to build a bridge/link between an incident card on the feed page and the coresponding  map marker on the map page 
The idea is that there is a go-to button on an incident card - when the user presses this button, the app navigates to the map page, to the exact incident on the map at max zoom.

Auto-scroll comments (Frontend)


When a user clicks an incident card, auto-scroll to the bottom of its comment section.


Independent task


Add multiple map view modes (Frontend)


In this task i want to achieve three types of map views 
Light mode 
Dark mode 
Geo view 
Suggested use of open streen map with more geographical detail 
Carto Dark matte for light and dark mode 


Ensure incident reporting and map marker activity remains unchanged. Past development on the map page caused map markers to disappear - i hadd to nuke the mape page and start from scratch 


Independent task






Unify colour coding across all pages (Frontend + UI/UX)


Ensure incident colours match consistently on:


Report page


Feed page


Map view


Foundation task → must be done before #2 and #10


Mobile Report Page UI upgrade (Frontend + UI/UX)


Change to a scrolling menu / snackbar style UI.


Glass transparent effect.


Independent task


Implement incident close-out functionality (Backend + Frontend)


Define who can close incidents.


Define how an incident is closed.


Independent task (but may influence UI in #7)



Add navigation to incident (Google Maps-like) (Frontend + Backend)


Provide directions/navigation from the user’s location to a chosen incident location.
Implies that the map must show user's GPS location on the map, as is the case with well-known maps like Google Maps 


Independent task

